---
title: 'If-Else Challenge Question'
author: 'MJ Linane'
date: '10-20-2020'
course: 'G:\My Drive\.work-code\or-cs4all-python-lesson-plans\1.intro-sprite-game'
lesson number: ''
---

## Problem #1: Rain or Shine

Translate the following statements into a program that tells the user a clothing choice.

* Use a variable `temp` for the temperature
* Use a boolean (`True` / `False`) variable `is_raining` for whether or not it is raining.
* Use a variable `clothing_choice` to store the right clothing choice.

If the temperature is less than 30 degrees, then I wear my winter coat. Otherwise, if it is raining, I wear my rain jacket. In all other cases, I’ll just wear a sweatshirt.

Print out the clothing choice with `print()`

## Problem #2: End of Block 3 Movement

Translate the end of block movements into a program that will tell you what to do.

* Create the variable `green` and give it `"Linane"`
* Create the variable `orange` and give it `"first floor move to the gym"`
* Create the variable `apricot` and give it `"any block 4 classes on the first floor can report to class"`
* Create the variable `lavender` and give it `"any block 4 classes on the second floor can report to class"`
* Add `elif` statements that check the `current_color` variable against each of the possible colors and prints out its instructions.
* Finish the logic by adding an `else` that will print out: `"Go home"` or some other statement.
* Test the program by changing the `current_color` to each of the other colors. If it prints out the proper statement, the program works.

```python
## Put color variables here


## Set the current color
current_color = "green"

## Main Logic
if current_color == "green":
  print(green)
```
